documentation/add-to-cart.mdx, before:

---
title: "Cart & Checkout"
description: "Add products to the cart programmatically using URL parameters or shortcodes"
icon: "bag-shopping"
---

SureCart provides multiple ways to add items to the cart programmatically:

1. **URL Parameters** - Redirect users to checkout with pre-filled line items
2. **Shortcodes** - Use built-in shortcodes for add-to-cart buttons

<Info>
  Looking to customize cart or checkout behavior? See the [Cart
  Hooks](/documentation/actions-filters/cart) and [Checkout
  Hooks](/documentation/actions-filters/checkout) reference for available
  actions and filters.
</Info>

---

## URL Parameters

The most straightforward way to add items to cart is by redirecting users to the checkout page with `line_items` query parameters.

### Basic Example

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx', // Your SureCart price ID
                'quantity' => 1,
            ],
        ],
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>

<a href="<?php echo esc_url( $checkout_url ); ?>">
    Add to Cart
</a>
```

### Multiple Items

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_product_one',
                'quantity' => 1,
            ],
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_product_two',
                'quantity' => 2,
            ],
        ],
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>
```

### With Coupon Code

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx',
                'quantity' => 1,
            ],
        ],
        'coupon' => 'SAVE10', // Promotion code
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>
```

### With Product Variant

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id'   => 'price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx',
                'quantity'   => 1,
                'variant_id' => 'variant_xxxxxxxxxxxxx', // Optional variant
            ],
        ],
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>
```

---

## Shortcodes

SureCart provides built-in shortcodes for adding products to cart.

### Add to Cart Button

```
[sc_product_cart_button id="prod_xxxxxxxxxxxxx" text="Add To Cart"]
```

<ResponseField name="Parameters" type="Shortcode Parameters">
  <Expandable title="properties">
    <ResponseField name="id" type="string" required>
      Product ID.
    </ResponseField>
    <ResponseField name="text" type="string">
      Button text. Default: "Add To Cart"
    </ResponseField>
    <ResponseField name="width" type="integer">
      Button width in pixels.
    </ResponseField>
    <ResponseField name="add_to_cart" type="boolean">
      Whether to add to cart or go directly to checkout.
    </ResponseField>
  </Expandable>
</ResponseField>

### Buy Button with Line Items

```
[sc_buy_button]
    [sc_line_item price_id="price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx" quantity="1"]
[/sc_buy_button]
```

### Multiple Line Items

```
[sc_buy_button]
    [sc_line_item price_id="price_product_one" quantity="1"]
    [sc_line_item price_id="price_product_two" quantity="2"]
[/sc_buy_button]
```

---

## Related

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Cart Hooks"
    icon="cart-shopping"
    href="/documentation/actions-filters/cart"
  >
    Customize cart icon, visibility, and behavior.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Checkout Hooks"
    icon="credit-card"
    href="/documentation/actions-filters/checkout"
  >
    Hook into checkout events and customize validation.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

Add section on using shortcodes programmatically in PHP

documentation/add-to-cart.mdx, after:

---
title: "Cart & Checkout"
description: "Add products to the cart programmatically using URL parameters or shortcodes"
icon: "bag-shopping"
---

SureCart provides multiple ways to add items to the cart programmatically:

1. **URL Parameters** - Redirect users to checkout with pre-filled line items
2. **Shortcodes** - Use built-in shortcodes for add-to-cart buttons

<Info>
  Looking to customize cart or checkout behavior? See the [Cart
  Hooks](/documentation/actions-filters/cart) and [Checkout
  Hooks](/documentation/actions-filters/checkout) reference for available
  actions and filters.
</Info>

---

## URL Parameters

The most straightforward way to add items to cart is by redirecting users to the checkout page with `line_items` query parameters.

### Basic Example

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx', // Your SureCart price ID
                'quantity' => 1,
            ],
        ],
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>

<a href="<?php echo esc_url( $checkout_url ); ?>">
    Add to Cart
</a>
```

### Multiple Items

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_product_one',
                'quantity' => 1,
            ],
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_product_two',
                'quantity' => 2,
            ],
        ],
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>
```

### With Coupon Code

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id' => 'price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx',
                'quantity' => 1,
            ],
        ],
        'coupon' => 'SAVE10', // Promotion code
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>
```

### With Product Variant

```php
<?php
$checkout_url = add_query_arg(
    [
        'line_items' => [
            [
                'price_id'   => 'price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx',
                'quantity'   => 1,
                'variant_id' => 'variant_xxxxxxxxxxxxx', // Optional variant
            ],
        ],
    ],
    \SureCart::pages()->url( 'checkout' )
);
?>
```

---

## Shortcodes

SureCart provides built-in shortcodes for adding products to cart.

### Add to Cart Button

```
[sc_product_cart_button id="prod_xxxxxxxxxxxxx" text="Add To Cart"]
```

<ResponseField name="Parameters" type="Shortcode Parameters">
  <Expandable title="properties">
    <ResponseField name="id" type="string" required>
      Product ID.
    </ResponseField>
    <ResponseField name="text" type="string">
      Button text. Default: "Add To Cart"
    </ResponseField>
    <ResponseField name="width" type="integer">
      Button width in pixels.
    </ResponseField>
    <ResponseField name="add_to_cart" type="boolean">
      Whether to add to cart or go directly to checkout.
    </ResponseField>
  </Expandable>
</ResponseField>

### Buy Button with Line Items

```
[sc_buy_button]
    [sc_line_item price_id="price_xxxxxxxxxxxxx" quantity="1"]
[/sc_buy_button]
```

### Multiple Line Items

```
[sc_buy_button]
    [sc_line_item price_id="price_product_one" quantity="1"]
    [sc_line_item price_id="price_product_two" quantity="2"]
[/sc_buy_button]
```

### Using Shortcodes in PHP

You can render shortcodes programmatically in PHP using WordPress's `do_shortcode` function.

```php
<?php
echo do_shortcode( '[sc_product_cart_button id="prod_xxxxxxxxxxxxx" text="Buy Now"]' );
?>
```

For buy buttons with multiple line items:

```php
<?php
echo do_shortcode( '
    [sc_buy_button]
        [sc_line_item price_id="price_product_one" quantity="1"]
        [sc_line_item price_id="price_product_two" quantity="2"]
    [/sc_buy_button]
' );
?>
```

---

## Related

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Cart Hooks"
    icon="cart-shopping"
    href="/documentation/actions-filters/cart"
  >
    Customize cart icon, visibility, and behavior.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Checkout Hooks"
    icon="credit-card"
    href="/documentation/actions-filters/checkout"
  >
    Hook into checkout events and customize validation.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
